---
title:  YouTube Delay Line
layout: post
date:   2019-05-31 10:06
---

I've been reading *Deep Work* by Cal Newport and one of the tenets of his
method is embracing boredom.  Rather than filling idle minutes with scrolling
through a social feed or reading vapid articles, taking a break from stimulus
allows your brain to relax and subconsciously process the events of the day.
Another benefit of avoiding distraction during these times is exercising your
self-discipline, which will make it easier to focus on a necessary task when it
counts.

Rather than doing nothing during these idle moments, Newport recommends
deliberately planning a relaxing activity, rather than reaching for whatever is
most-appealing at the time.  Deciding in advance gives you something to look
forward to, and lets you make sure that whatever you choose is aligned with
your goals and values.  Some examples of alternatives relaxing activities are
reading a book, crafting, sports, or any other well-structured hobby.  All of
these avoid the internet to get away from the rapid distractions and demands on
your attention that it generally provides.  One of the section headings in this
section of the book reads "Stop Using The Internet For Entertainment".

One of my go-to leisure activities is watching videos on YouTube.  This
activity is inherently tied to the internet, so I started thinking about ways
to disconnect it somewhat.  I had the idea of caching videos from channels I
subscribe to for offline viewing, then watching them away from the YouTube UI
with its endless lists of personalized recommendations, click-bait titles, and
attention-grabbing thumbnails.

The first way I thought of to accomplish this is to write a script to monitor
when a video I care about is released, and automatically download it to watch
later.  I can then watch it outside of the browser without exposing myself to
unnecessary distraction.  I still need to go on my computer for that, so I had
the idea of batching the videos and burning them to a DVD that I can watch on a
device that has absolutely no connection to the internet.  I think I probably
don't need to go that far.  The amount of plastic wasted in the DVDs wouldn't
be too good either.
